---
title: Privacy Policy
description: Privacy Policy.
permalink: /privacyPolicy/
layout: privacyPolicy
---

**Updated:** June 23, 2024

Your privacy really matters! <b>{{ site.name }}</b> takes your privacy seriously. To better protect your privacy, I provide this privacy policy notice explaining the way your personal information is collected and used.

Please do not hesitate to [contact me](/contact) if you have further concerns or seek extra information about my Privacy Policy.

#### Information Collection and Use

- Personal Information: If you contact me directly, I may receive additional information about you such as your name, email address, phone number, the contents of the message and/or attachments you may send me, and any other information you may choose to provide.

- Log Data: I collect information that your browser sends whenever you visit my blog. This log data may include information such as your computer’s Internet Protocol (IP) address, browser type, browser version, the pages of my site that you visit, the time and date of your visit, the time spent on those pages, and other statistics.

#### Cookies

This personal blog uses cookies to enhance your browsing experience and to analyze website traffic. Cookies are small data files that are placed on your device when you visit this website. These cookies help me understand how visitors interact with my site, which allows me to improve the user experience.

Specifically, I use Google Analytics to collect and analyze information about the number of visitors and which posts they read the most. Google Analytics uses cookies to track user interactions, such as pages visited, time spent on the site, and other relevant metrics. The information generated by these cookies is transmitted to and stored by Google on servers in the United States.

You can learn more about how Google uses data when you use our site by visiting <a href="https://policies.google.com/privacy" target="_blank">Google's Privacy Policy</a>.

You can manage your cookie preferences through your browser settings. Most web browsers allow you to control cookies through their settings preferences. Please refer to your browser’s help section for more information on how to delete or disable cookies.


#### Links to Third Party Websites

I have included links on this website for your use and reference. I am not responsible for the privacy policies on these websites. You should be aware that the privacy policies of these websites may differ from our own.


#### Security

The security of your personal information is important to me, but remember that no method of transmission over the Internet, or method of electronic storage, is 100% secure. While I strive to use commercially acceptable means to protect your personal information, I cannot guarantee its absolute security.


#### Changes To This Privacy Policy

This Privacy Policy is effective and will remain in effect except with respect to any changes in its provisions in the future, which will be in effect immediately after being posted on this page.

I reserve the right to update or change our Privacy Policy at any time and you should check this Privacy Policy periodically. If I make any material changes to this Privacy Policy, I will notify you either through the email address you have provided me, or by placing a prominent notice on my website.


#### Consent

By using my website, you consent to and accept our Privacy Policy and its terms and conditions.