---
title: "Essential Math for ML and AI - Calculus: The Foundation of Change"
description: Beyond Numbers - How Calculus fuels machine learning algorithms.
keywords: [calculus, essential-math-for-ai-ml]
categories: [calculus, essential-math-for-ai-ml]
coverImage: ./images/cover-image.jpeg
--imageDescription: A prehistoric scene set in the stone age, depicting early humans learning basic counting and mathematics in a natural setting.
imageCredits: Image generated by Adobe Express.
--lastUpdated: 2024-12-21
draft: true
hidden: true
---

{% include "toc.md" %}

# Introduction

Calculus is a branch of mathematics that deals with the study of continuous change - imagine tracking how things change smoothly over time or space, rather than in sudden jumps. It was originally called **infinitesimal calculus** or "the calculus of infinitesimals." It provides tools for understanding how things change and how to optimize them.

There are two main branches of calculus:

1. **Differential Calculus**
2. **Integral Calculus** (aka Integrals)

In calculus, we start with two big questions about functions<a href="#ref-1" class="reference-link" data-ref="ref-1"><sup id="back-to-1">1</sup></a>: 

- First, how steep is a function at a point? 
- Second, what is the area underneath the graph over some region? 

We answer the first question using a tool known as the **derivative**. To answer the second question, we use **integrals**. With that said, calculus uses derivatives and integrals to explore known and unknown rates of change.

## Differential Calculus

Differential calculus deals with with *instantaneous rates of change*. Imagine we're driving a car. Differential calculus helps us determine the car's exact speed at any given moment, not just its average speed over a longer period. The key tool here is the *derivative*, which measures how a function changes as its input changes at that point. In our case of driving a car, for instance, the derivative of our location with respect to time would give us our speed.

## Integral Calculus

Integral calculus deals with *accumulation*. If we know the speed of the car at every moment, integral calculus helps us figure out the total distance it traveled. For example, if our speed is constant at 30 mph for 2 hours. The integral calculus helps us calculate that we traveled 60 miles total. It's like adding up all the tiny bits of distance covered in each moment.

# What Is Calculus Used For?

Calculus is used to understand and work with things that are constantly changing. It helps us answer questions like:

- **How fast is something changing at a particular moment?** 
  - For example, the speed of a car at a specific time, the rate of population growth, etc.
  - This is what differential calculus does.
- **What's the total accumulation of something over a period of time?**
  - For example, the total distance a car travels, the total rainfall in a month, etc.
  - This is what integral calculus does.

So, it's about understanding change – both instantaneous changes and accumulated changes – which is incredibly useful in many fields, from physics and engineering to economics and computer science (including AI and machine learning).

[Work in progress]

<div class="references">
   <hr>
   <h2>Notes and References</h2>
   <ol>
      <li id="ref-1">1. A <strong>Function</strong>is like a machine or a rule that takes an input and gives us an output. Function defition: y = f(x). y is a function of x and y depends on x. x -> f(x) -> y. <a href="#back-to-1" class="back-to-note">↩</a>
      </li>      
   </ol>
</div>